2025-01-20 Outage Report (#609)
hachyderm/community: community.hachyderm.io/content/en/blog/incidents/2025-01-24-elevated-500-errors/index.md

---
date: 2025-01-24
title: "Global Outage: Elevated 500 error levels"
linkTitle: "Global Outage: Elevated 500 error levels"

> description: "Hachyderm experienced elevated 500 error levels in mid-January 2025. Here is the postmortem, analysis, and writeup on the incident."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Hachyderm experienced elevated 500 error levels in mid-January 2025. Here is the timeline, analysis, and write-up on the incident."
```

    In the systemd file, you need to do:
    ```
    LimitNOFILE=3000:524288
    ```
    which then gets printed as:
    ```
    LimitNOFILE=524288
    LimitNOFILESoft=3000
    ```
- **17:50** Outage confirmed to be resolved

## Root Cause

An error that first appeared during system updates was misinterpreted to be caused by the system updates, rather than a separate system actually being in a failure mode. The database load balancer, pgbouncer had been configured for 2000 connections, but only 1024 max file handles. Hachyderm's recent infrastructure changes had resulted in the maximum potential database connections raising to 1428.

The 500 errors were actually database errors, and not related to the system updates. It just so happened that when we were performing the upgrades, we also experienced elevated traffic levels, which pushed us over the 1024 connections that pgbouncer could support.

![Graph of HTTP Requests to Hachyderm](./image-02.png)

### Things that went well

> TODO

Author: ```suggestion
- the infrastructure team was responsive thanks to members in different time zones
```

### Things that went poorly

Multiple different issues were happening simultaneously:
- Increased HTTP requests resulting in database connection exhaustion
- System updates to packages known to have caused issues in the past
- CDN failover not happening correctly

There was a lack of alerts on pgbouncer errors which resulted in the database issue not being discovered in a timely fashion.

We didn't check the grafana dashboards for 500 errors, which would have indicated that the outage actually started slightly before the updates were performed.

### Opportunities 

We need to improve our monitoring and alerting on critical systems.

We need to improve our nginx configuration to ensure failover works correctly

We need to review our pgbouncer and postgresql configuration

## Resulting Action

#### 1) Alerts added for pgbouncer errors by `@ThisIsMissEm`

Alerts for error loglines on pgbouncer were added.

#### 2) Spreadsheet created to correctly calculate database connections required `@ThisIsMissEm`

> This will be published after review from the Hachyderm team. We'd previously manually run the mathematics set out in `@hazelweakly`'s fantastic [Scaling Mastodon](https://hazelweakly.me/blog/scaling-mastodon/#db_pool-notes-from-nora's-blog) blog post.

Author: ```suggestion
We'd previously manually run the calculations set out in `@hazelweakly`'s fantastic [Scaling Mastodon](https://hazelweakly.me/blog/scaling-mastodon/#db_pool-notes-from-nora's-blog) blog post. However, we'd not re-run the numbers as we changed our infrastructure.

You can find the spreadsheet to calculate [database connections for Mastodon](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KbJ-TAPLqsRvN91Li-04E2MnV8EYAqlwcplcl_q_TVY/edit?gid=0#gid=0).
```
